---
title: Reducing Costs
group: Billings Commuter Challenge
date: 2025-01-18
---
---
# {{ $frontmatter.title }}

On Digital Ocean, I can run the Commuter Challenge for $11 a month. I use a small droplet which hosts both the
app server and the database. I use a [Simple Object Storage](https://www.digitalocean.com/products/spaces) bucket for
user uploaded content like profile pictures and events flyer images.

Going into AWS I expect I'll be paying more, and my goal is to host everything on $20 or less a month. I know it's going
to be close because I plan to use RDS. I could probably achieve a similar price if I continued to run everything on a
single EC2 instance. But, I want to do things the "proper" way. I want to learn more of the AWS tools that would be used
on a highly available enterprise system, even if I run them for a bit and find a different (cheaper) way.

## NAT GW Cost

In my last post I set up an EC2, NAT Gateway and SSM. I logged on the next day to start investigated RDS and saw a charge 
of $0.24. **Gasp!** It was only turned on for a few hours! Anyone with AWS experience knows right away that this charge 
is from the NAT Gateway. At $0.045 per hour, it costs a minimum $30 a month to run. 

That won't do. For a company, the overhead of not managing your own NAT is probably worth it. Although depending on your
use case, [that might not be true](https://careers.chime.com/en/life-at-chime/engineering-at-chime/how-we-reduced-our-aws-bill-by-seven-figures/). 

It looks like if I want to keep my EC2 in a private subnet I should look into running a NAT Instance, or maybe implement 
IPv6 and an egress only internet gateway.

## NAT Instance

The AWS NAT Instance hasn't received updates since 2018, and I saw many recommendations for [fck-nat](https://fck-nat.dev/stable/).
It's active, has to easy follow instructions, and a cloud formation template to get you going. I won't post the template 
here as its the same as on the deploy instructions, but with my template's references replacing parameters.

Using a t4g.nano for the NAT instance, it should cost around $3.50 a month! Now I can get back to RDS or the S3 bucket
with CloudFront.